all right welcome to the episode of b2b
marketing and more
today i have a special special special
guest
it's a very good friend michael brenner
and he's the cmo influencer motivation
speaker
yes awesome i listened to his speech was
fantastic
if you ever have to listen you have to
check him out
also he owns the marketing insider group
and um i use that website quite a bit
actually there's a lot of useful content
and um regarding content marketing
search marketing so anything digital
marketing related
so welcome michael yeah pam it's great
to be here thanks for having me
am i low enough yeah no you're perfect
you're perfect
so um 2020 has been an interesting year
yes especially for all of us marketers
specifically
so um obviously for me i want to be 100
transparent
when a march hit like all my pipeline
just
like disappeared and uh we obviously
work very closely with
marketers so what have you been seeing
in the past four months your
observations
how is the b2b marketing landscape is
doing as a whole do you have any insight
to share with us
yeah i mean i think um a couple of
things uh one
is i think that there was a pretty early
on
um shift out of let's say uh blatant
promotional ads
and uh it started in b2c i think yeah
yeah yeah even the ceo of coca-cola said
brand advertising is completely
ineffective which i love that quote
i'm like says the largest most
recognized brand in the world
um you know and and i always explain the
context for that quote during the
pandemic but
why does it not apply normally um you
know like why why does he think brand
advertising isn't effective now but it
is in other times
so i think the id marketers shifted
budget out of
those kinds of of you know display ads
and and
things like that but also emotional
centric yeah more promotional
yeah i think they shifted away from sort
of you know having a banner ad next to a
you know a bad story on
online about you know people dying and
stuff like that um
but but also even events weren't
happening as you and i know because
that's where we always get to catch up
and see each other
um they all you know either shut down or
moved online
and so a lot of brands i think shifted
their budget out of
um events i mean we got a couple of
clients who just basically said hey i
was gonna spend this 30k on
you know this event but you know can i
buy your services for a whole year
um and and so we got one or two clients
just because they shifted out of an
event spend
yeah so that's fantastic
i know i feel very very lucky and um
to have been able to support some fun
clients with that stuff
uh what else we also saw i mean i i
think marketers were really really
struggling
um you know just emotionally and
mentally
but um really feeling the pressure of
delivering you know roi
yeah yeah so i did like jay baer and
asked me to do like a video
he was working with oracle or some com i
think it was oracle and
he's like what's what are you seeing and
i said i'm we're seeing a return to
focus on the corporate blog
which i think is really interesting it's
because you know and lucky for me
because it's what we do but
yeah you know it's just it's it's seo
it's organic
traffic it's measurable it it's not
spammy ads
um so you know yeah just original
thought leadership helpful
kind of content and so you know we
didn't lose a client during the
pandemic you know for the folks that
were doing that we gained a few luckily
yeah so yeah so i you know what i'm
hoping is that it continues and
you know i love telling people like the
future of marketing ain't what you
thought it was it's what it was always
supposed to be
and that was helpful content delivered
consistently you know it's not going to
be ai
and ar and vr and all these fun you know
voice search and
you know sure all of those things are
trends that we should all be paying
attention to but
i think it's just back to the basics
focus on customers deliver
you know content that they want and and
try to figure out how to convert them
yeah i uh i saw the similar trends
as well and um in terms of the marketing
needs to actually showcase the roi at
least from my perspective you are
talking about the content that's
shifting back to the basics which is the
original content created content
what i have seen is uh to show your
outlier there's another approach which
is work very closely with your sales
team
and uh that's another another um things
i see
that the more and more marketers
especially on the b2b side
they actually try to make an effort to
align with their sales
effort whatever things they are doing
they will try to complement
complement that such as account based
marketing and uh even they do a
retargeting ads nowadays it's pretty
pretty
uh specific so yeah isn't that funny
sales and marketing alignment you know
you and i were talking about that
don't you think that's kind of like
basic but anyway
it's true and a lot of it's because i
think sales people who are used to being
out on the road and going to events and
and you know
shaking hands with people uh they're
they're sitting in the front of their
computers like you and i
have been and they're like wow i think i
need the marketing team to help me with
content and with with
you know like you said account based
marketing you know all of those kinds of
things
um the sales and marketing alignment
conversation came back back to the
forefront
i totally agree yeah i totally agree
yeah it's kind of fun yeah so
um in terms of the the shift i have seen
some challenges
i heard from at least my clients or uh
talking to some marketing peers
and obviously one of them is the the
buyers purchasing
behaviors have changed i think you may
say jshare a one stat
a statistics with me that um like 50
of the buyers especially on the
consumers i'm using this as a
data point that they are actually tried
or purchased and uh through a new brand
i mean the first one i can tell you is
probably everybody's using zoom but
before
the pandemic zoom was not that popular
right
and that's the new purchase and also
another thing that everybody is using
is that this selfie ring la la la
right so that's also a new purchase and
um
obviously if the customers are spending
money on something else
that means they are not necessarily
buying stuff from existing brand
so um with that being said what do you
uh suggest that marketers should do
because they obviously
like like us they probably see some of
the existing customers disappearing
or going somewhere else right what are
some of the win
back strategies from your perspective
that um
that you can suggest to overcome that
challenges
yeah it's a great it's a great question
i've always talked about
retention as the sort of um you know
step
child of uh you know it's the lost lost
child of marketing objectives
um you know there's only four reach
engage convert and retain
and um but we never talk about retention
and
and i think in what we're seeing now
exactly to your point
is we need to make sure that we're
keeping the customers we have first and
foremost
i totally agree yeah i've had
conversation
yeah just one second michael and also
when i started working with some of my
clients that that they started engaging
with uh their sales
in a little bit more proactive way and
the sales goal has changed as well for
longest time it's always a net new
right they try to get the net new which
is the new customers
but during the pandemic they shift their
strategy is basically what can we do to
retain our existing customers what can
we do to cross sales and
uh and the post sales so it's a similar
strategy so sorry i interrupt you but go
ahead
no no you're absolutely right i was just
gonna i was just gonna kind of you know
expand upon what you just said i mean
we're
we have one client where we worked with
them on a gifting strategy you know we
talked about you know
instead of sending pens and pencils and
you know um you know t-shirts with logos
on them
you know what are some creative like
ways i actually have somebody on my team
who's really good with puns
really do you did you know a tool called
alice
so check alyce out michael um it's uh
ice
and um they are using ai i know is that
kind of
funny like everybody's using ai and
algorithm yeah they use
algorithms to actually cross customers
uh
profiles social social media profiles
and then the machines will come up with
some interesting ideas
and the to the marketer to suggest what
kind of ideas you should give them
you should give them interesting yes
i know and uh checking it out they also
will do fulfillment as well
yeah advice i know so check that one out
so but i like your solution but keep
going sorry to interrupt
no no no that's great i'm gonna check
that out because it's like i said it's
something we've been asked to do for
clients it's something we're doing with
our own clients um
i'll tell you i'll tell you one of our
strategies so we uh john and kira's does
a chocolate um it's a bumble bee it's
kind of a famous
sort of gift thing um chocolate and so i
said it to our clients when we first
sign up with them and say
looking forward to creating buzzworthy
content with you so you know so
i like it i love it so there's a
connection you got a little bit
chocolate and also kind of aligned with
your message and what you are exactly
exactly so yeah so i you know but i see
large brands trying to figure out how to
do that at scale it's kind of like
account based marketing
um you know in a per in a more different
way i was going to say that it's another
form
of account based marketing i know we
don't use that term for like
you know uh gifting but it isn't it's a
different form of account-based
marketing and for retention
yes yeah i mean it's kind of like
account-based marketing
and personalization and being more human
you know just kind of
being more more like literally
personalized um not not
not just like not just like dear pam in
my email but like
actually dear pam i'm sending you a
personal gift that might be you know
something you like
yeah about on top of it everything all
the benefits you say plus
on brain
yeah it all comes back to relationships
right i mean i think that's what's
really great
that's what's winning that's what's
winning in these days is is
you know it's yeah the ai can help but
in the end it's really
it's their relationship exactly
yeah um so obviously
marketers are all making changes small
large
right in uh to accommodate the current
situation
and we know that we're probably in this
for
a long haul yes
do you actually have any suggestion in
terms of if they are making changes
right now obviously there's so many
things we have to tackle first
right what are like one or two things
that needs to be done first
from your particular yeah especially out
of uh
like 2020 uh 2021 planing yeah
so uh so there's two things and they're
kind of the sides of the same coin
one is i think marketers need to better
define what marketing
is to the rest of the organization and
what i mean by that is
yeah there's there's always been two
kinds of marketers there's the strategic
value-driven you know i'm only going to
do stuff that drives value
marketer and that's kind of what i've
always tried to be and then there's
there's
the people and we all know them we all
we've all worked with these people
they're the ones that just they just
want to do what they're told and we you
know you could say they're the
nosers or they're the you know the the
butt kissers or whatever you want
whatever analogy you want to use
you know but i have to be a but the
thing is michael i have to be a devil's
advocate sometimes
like in the big enterprise which is both
of us work in a big enterprise for a
long time
you know you have to deal with politics
and sometimes
you just have to play the game i mean
not all the time but in situations
sure yes so like if your boss says i
want you to go pick up my dry cleaning
do you do it probably not i was like
not that one but so this is it but i'm
talking about like foreign like you want
your your boss to want you to create but
sometimes you're just like
that's very self-serving that's the
things i struggle the most
a lot of the time so so this is and i
talk about this and mean people suck
there's there's this i call it the you
can't have your cake and eat it too
problem so um basically
and i used this analogy with with a
difficult stakeholder a couple years ago
when i was at sap
she was asking for leads and i said
great that's what i know how to do
this is the program this is how we're
going to do it i'm going to use existing
budget you don't need to spend any more
we're just going to shift away from the
stuff that you liked to do but didn't
work and put it into this other thing
and say no no and she said no you know i
i want i want a chocolate cake but i
want you to use vanilla icing and i'm
like nope
like or you know or i want a chocolate
cake and i want you to use
um you know sand from the beach like
i so i i remember telling her i'm like
you can't have a cake
and tell me how to bake it yeah if you
want a chocolate cake
yeah i know how to bake a chocolate do
your job right
yes exactly so so yeah sure there were
things we did for her
that weren't adding value but it was
only after
we made sure we were doing things that
were going to give her the goal that she
wanted to achieve
and that that's a conversation i think
marketers need to have today it's it's
listen
we we can't just be the team of people
that go do stuff for you at the whim of
any executive exactly um we can do
things like you said and playing devil's
advocate is
you know i think that's important
there's always going to be times when
you have to play the game
but it should only happen in let's get
maybe it's overtime right like
in in the four quarters or you know
again following the same analogy
um during the the heart of the game you
need to make sure you're gonna win
and if that means doing a little dance
in the end zone or what you know or
whatever whatever
yeah then you can do that but but it has
to only be
after you've met the business goal
that's the first thing
the other side of that coin is so so we
have to redefine marketing
as strategically delivering value for
the organization
the other thing and this one's even
probably harder the other thing is i've
been and you know this i've been talking
about this for years is i think
marketing needs to help
lead the cultural transformation inside
companies to focus on customers
and it's just like it's just like we've
you know you know the people that were
kissers at you know at work that we've
worked with before in the same way we
know the companies that don't give a
crap about customers
and you know they'll say well i'm i'm
here to support the brand and the brand
has to
drive profit the best way to get profit
is to focus on customers and
the best team that can lead that
transformation is marketing
and so we've seen and i'm i'm you know
thrilled to be able to work with a
couple of brands
that have those courageous cmos that are
driving that change
and you know it means that they're
talking to you know
the chro it means that they've got the
mandate from the ceo to deliver you know
employee engagement policies that
focus on customer service they're
training on customer service they're
enabling their employees to not only be
engaged at work but also to make sure
that they're engaging
with customers and driving value there
that's a marketing discipline
and that's something that marketing can
really get a seat at the table in the
boardroom
when we're driving those conversations
so those are the two things
stop doing stuff that doesn't work
create the mandate or get the permission
from executives to do what works
and you know focus on customer
experience customer
service customer focus in the culture
across the entire organization
yeah but that's a tall order would you
say i mean in terms of marketing a lot
of times
we focus on um content creation we focus
on
the marketing outreach but what you are
saying is
is not just doing that in addition to
that if you will
that to lead the customer transformation
or even
drive that customer first initiative we
have to drive the changes
within the organization and i don't
think that is something
that the marketing usually uh takes on
right no usually hr's job to drive the
cultural difference
the cultural transformation and um even
its operations job
to kind of uh make sure everybody focus
on processes
but the customer part of it uh some some
of them actually
is actually out within the sales team
because they work with uh
customers and also key accounts yeah so
i
like that and that's actually like i
said um
is something that marketers needs to
focus on internally
yeah absolutely and and you know i mean
i have a client who's cmo is a product
marketer by
you know by by training by training and
wants to
yeah and and wants to bring a product
marketing focus
into all of their marketing and you know
the problem with that is and you know
she talks about sprints and
being agile and yep yep it's the
opposite of strategic it's the opposite
of customer focus
and it's short-sighted and it's you know
it's
it it certainly helps to you're in that
conversation with the ceo to say we're
going to focus on our products we're
going to market
from product marketing perspective it's
it sounds great
for you know in the ears of the ceo it
doesn't work
and you know one of the things that i've
been trying to you know you and i have
talked about this pam is
bringing together the product marketing
and the content marketing mindset
um to work together because we have to
work together
content marketing doesn't exist in a
vacuum it exists to sell more products
but but it it works because it doesn't
lead with that message it doesn't lead
with we have great
stuff you should buy it because no one
wants to listen to that
you know no one cares about your speeds
and feeds and and you know texts and
specs or you know whatever
whatever phrase you want
[Laughter]
but you know when we let product
marketers run run the ship
it's really you know it's a disaster and
we all know it we've all seen it and
it's it's why we have to
redefine what marketing is focus on
results and put customers first across
the entire organization and that's
that's a winning strategy for marketers
it's a winning strategy for marketing
um and so what's the opposite the
opposite is marketers are just people
that do that people ask them
to do yeah um you know and what's that
going to be
in main organization that's usually the
case yeah and what's that mean it means
creating brochures for products and
putting you know
making the banners for when we go back
to events i mean that's what marketers
are going to end up being
um and that's what market marketing is
going to end up doing in those
organizations that don't make those
changes now
yeah i hear you so now which is
um q4 obviously and i think the most
important thing is that in many
organizations
uh they are looking ahead for 2021
and what you are sharing with us in
terms of um
taking that the lead of
making internal transformation is one of
the initiatives
that the marketer can drive as a part of
plane 2021 discussion and
um and also another point that you made
in terms of relook
of the current marketing because the
current situation is probably not going
to change anytime
soon even it does change our
customer behaviors or the purchasing
behavior is probably going to
be different and so
have that discussion with the sales team
have that discussion with the internal
stakeholders to
determine what that will look like from
business strategies perspective
and then bring that down to the
marketing yeah any other additional
point that you want to add
in terms of plain 2021 discussion
no i think you kind of alluded to it is
just you know i think the
the two things that marketers should be
doing um at a tactical level for 2021
ask your customers what are their
greatest challenges i like that i love
2021 have a plan to address those
challenges
create the context for your solutions um
and ask the sales team what their
greatest challenges are they're going to
say leads they're going to say
you know having leads more qualified
they're going to say
you know net neu they're going to say
what retention strategy whatever
but whatever they are ask them what they
are quantify it and create strategies to
address them that's it
simple stuff understood so tell our
listeners
how can they find you and how uh
you can help them well i would love to
say just google me but you know the
problem is
is um is there's a really famous um i
swear to god there's a rocket scientist
and a brain surgeon
that show up first in google as a
michael brenner michael brenner
and then there's then there's a
historian well there's actually two
there's
there's a political writer and a jewish
historian
who writes like a book every three
months it seems like uh so really
these folks come up before me so i i
wish i wish i came up first but
i do think the brain surgeon the rocket
scientist the political writer and the
you know historian probably should come
up before me
um but yeah marketing insidergroup.com
go to linkedin and if you do search for
michael brenner on linkedin i should
show up
that will be awesome awesome hey i want
to ask you one question
all right kind of silly question but i
love it
what is the okay useless talent that you
have
my most useless talent um
i've been explaining this to my kids
this is this is the most useless talent
and i there's got to be some sort of a
name for this but
i for some reason even as a kid um
read words backwards so when i see like
a billboard i read it backwards in my
head to see if it creates funny words or
funny sounds
i love that so i absolutely love it
yes yes yes give me one can you give me
my examples on spot
like yeah so your your first name is map
backwards right
very very simple yeah so i'm i'm uh i'm
like
renerb michael brenner uh so oh my
goodness
yeah i love it i know it's just like so
when i see you the only thing that pops
into your mind is map
okay great thanks no
no it's not that it's not that crazy
it's just when i see words like
my brain just does this like little it's
like it's a boredom or something i don't
know
so i told my kids that this morning and
they were actually using bad words
backwards to you know kind of make a
joke about it
so is that the saddest part when you
tell something like this to a kid
the first thing into my mind is okay
what is the word
okay cool cool it's trap yeah exactly
yes so how about that i hopefully you've
never heard that weird no
never ever and i was like all right
you are literally on the number one spot
in terms of useless talent
i know i'm gonna go i'm gonna google it
right after we're done to see if
there's a name for it but yes it's it's
uh it's a sickness it's a disease
oh man hey michael thank you so much
so much for coming to my podcast and
sharing your insight
love it love it thanks thanks for having
me yeah that's the least i can do
um you know what i'm going to bring you
back
in 2021 and obviously with additional
clients and additional insight that you
see working with them
we would love to hear from you i'd love
to come back any time